---
date: 2024-05-27
categories:
  - journey
tags:
  - IIT
  - decisions
comments: true
---

# Chemical Engineer to Cybersecurity

My first practical experience with programming was in senior year of high school
when I created a set of games using NetBeans JAVA Spring framework. I cleared <!-- stop -->
the Joint Entrance Examination with merit which allowed me to enroll in the
Indian Institute of Technology shortlisting process. IIT Bombay being the cream
on top of IITs and it being a three-hour drive from my home was one of the best
options staring back at me. The only catch... due to my ranking (2124) I would
not be able to get a direct entry into Computer Science. I decided to go ahead
with IIT Bombay, thinking that I could switch to CS. I got Civil Engineering as
per my merit and worked hard to get a CGPA of 8.77/10 at the end of my first
year. This allowed me to get a merit-based department change but alas, I was
only able to switch up to Chemical Engineering due to the hierarchy of streams
with CS on top.

To gain some experience in programming, I ventured into data analytics. I
completed a few MOOCs and two internships. One internship was on Microarray and
Mass Spectrometer data analysis and the other was on creating a fairer system of
ranking for Triathletes by modelling the difficulty of triathlon races
quantitatively. The latter project was a unique experience as I worked in the
Faculty of Kinesiology and Physical Education at University of Toronto. After my
Bachelor’s I got a job at ICICI Bank as a Technology Manager. I dealt with cloud
architecture, DevOps, project management and worked as a Kubernetes cluster
administrator, setting up RBAC permissions, resource limits, monitoring and
logging solutions for audit purposes. It fascinated me that the security team
always has the final say in decisions regarding the architecture and the
application. I realised that I wanted to understand more on the security aspects
and do what it takes to earn that responsibility.

To start my venture into Cybersecurity, I believe that having a strong technical
background in Computer Science is essential. During the first year of my job at
ICICI Bank, I read the complete text on Computer Networks (Tanenbaum) and
Operating Systems (Silberschatz). I practiced coding and Data Structures and
Algorithms problems, having solved 200+ problems on LeetCode. To get hands on
experience, I decided to work on research projects. Under the guidance of Prof.
Stjepan Picek of Delft University of Technology, I worked on investigating the
effectiveness of neuron coverage fuzzing against backdoored CNN models and also
applied critical neuron differential fuzzing to identify backdoored inputs.
Another research project was under the guidance of Prof. Apostolis Zarras
of Delft University of Technology. It involved building an automated tool that
used fuzzing to detect vulnerable smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain.

As a next step I have decided to go for a Master’s degree in Cybersecurity. I
started by MS in Cybersecurity at NYU. Although I am doing my Master's degree
which is providing me a thorough understanding of the basics, I believe that
delving into CTFs and trying to earn a bug bounty will teach me a lot about
security at deeper levels. So I have actively started participating in CTFs.
Surprisingly, I have already earned two achievements. I qualified for the next
(in-person) round for VIVID CTF and my team also earned the first spot among the
in-person teams who had participated in Jersey CTF. 
