---
date: 2024-08-16
categories:
  - life
tags:
  - figuring out
  - just thinking
comments: true
---

# Figuring out what to do - Part 0

Recently I have been trying to figure out what to do in life. As per current
real world state it seems earning money and contributing to society are two
different objectives. How to figure out the balance? <!-- stop -->

## Why do the paths diverge?

Maybe the paths diverge because money is given away randomly sometimes. If money
was given to good contributions then it will facilitate more goodness. But since
we have so many hands through which money flows we'll never know where the money
is going. People are intrinsically selfish and it is only when one's basic needs
are met that they can start being selfless. With each micro transaction money is
lost to bad intentions as people who are selfish are stealing/scamming the money
away. The stealing is possible because we don't have enough controls in place to
monitor everything. The system itself is not secured. Our taxes go through
multiple hands before they are put behind a cause. There is no transparency.

## How we can make the paths converge?

Give money to good intentions. If you see someone contributing to society give
your money away it will help and motivate the good person. When the good person
achieves more good things it will inspire others and they will also be motivated
to good things. Charity is required because we failed to set up a world where
good is rewarded enough. 

Don't try to cheat your way to free things. That is the reason obscure methods
are used to take money from you which you don't even realise. There are layers
and layers of random money making abstractions that have been put up because of
how people think and behave (sometimes selfishly). Be a good person and it will
reflect upon the world eventually and reduce its complexity.


## What should I do?

**Startup**

A start up is a good idea to get money and also do good for the world as you can
control how the money will flow through your organisation and it has still not
been tampered with. To make sure a company remains clean, finances must be
transparent. The money received should be traceable to where it is getting used.
How much is going into people's pockets should be transparent and they should
own the money they receive and not try to fake anything. Be honest, the right
people will understand. Don't try to appeal to the masses to maximise your
appeal and profits. Appeal to the people who you think have right views.

**Open source contributions**

Open source contributions are selfless acts and I respect the people who are do
good for the world and give it out for free. Open source contributions are also
transparent so that is a win. There needs to be a sure shot way to earn rewards
for these contributions. The finances should be transparent too for any
sponsorware methods that are being used.

## Some more things that the world needs

A way to secure any system from scams and making it deterministic. Transparency
and a mathematically proven way for the system to be secure.

The finances are too obscure. There is no way for the money flow to be tracked
by the people who are giving away there money to things they think are good.

More Satoshi Nakamotos.



I will take a break now... Thanks for reading.
